Genre: 2D Action RPG with sandbox elements

Target Audience: The game and protagonist will appeal to individuals of both genders (with extra effort made to attract a female audience) age 10-16, but the gameplay elements will attract older gamers as well.

Description: Lydian Spring is an adventure game where the main character explores the area around her and uses objects she finds to construct tools, armor, and weapons to progress further in the game. The constructive nature of the the game has elements similar to Minecraft and Terraria, but this game will have more fixed areas of exploration and linear story. The game takes place in a futuristic semi-wasteland, with elements similar to Nausica of the Valley of the Winds - a central refuge surrounded on many sides by toxic danger. The main character works with her friends and neighbors to improve the environment around her village, increasing the area for cultivation and decreasing exposure to surrounding dangers. As the player explorers further beyond the village’s immediate boundaries, contact with outside forces and groups will influence the plot of the game.

Most compelling features: The game will allow a high degree of customizability with equipment. Players can attach different elements to create items, disassemble old items and reassemble them into new equipment, and modify individual elements to change their behavior (e.g. set jumpers on computer chips, mix solutions to create new ones, temper materials). Using these techniques, players can create new solutions to game problems not even envisioned by the game creators. When a player finds a new item, they can bring it back to a craftsman back at the village, who will study the design and learn to modify, disassemble, and recreate the object. The game setting and player character traits are also unique and compelling.

Cost: Shoestring. We will use open-source and free-to-use software to help defray costs. We will produce all assets ourselves.

Time to develop: We would like to have a playable prototype working by the end of the year (2015). We will need time to flesh out the scope, but the project will likely take 1-5 years, with a playable, fully-realized concept (i.e. all the above described features) within two years.
